The global informa Ɵon society, coupled with modern innova Ɵve capabili Ɵes, contributes to the digital transforma Ɵon of countries, industries, and individual companies. Due to digi ƟzaƟon, economic growth is achieved, and the compeƟƟveness of goods and services increases. Given the signiﬁcant scale and pace of digital transforma Ɵons that take place today, the speed of responding to their main trends is a signiﬁcant compeƟƟve advantage. In common prac Ɵce, one of the most successful tools of informa Ɵon and communica Ɵon technologies determines digitaliza Ɵon [1]. The development of the informa Ɵon society, the smart economy, and globaliza Ɵon processes make it necessary to digi Ɵze the marke Ɵng acƟvity because consumers prefer those brands and companies that quickly master the use of digital channels. However, [2] emphasize that the uniform approach to this process must be refused because of the speciﬁcs of na Ɵonal socio-cultural proﬁles of consumers. At the same Ɵme, the number of business processes is increasing under current condi Ɵons, which requires new methods and approaches to the transforma Ɵon of views on managing the marke Ɵng acƟvity of an enterprise. The experiences of many foreign and domes Ɵc companies indicate the signiﬁcant impact of digitaliza Ɵon on sales ac ƟviƟes as an essen Ɵal element of the enterprise’s markeƟng system. Digital methods of processing and using informa Ɵon are a major source of eﬃciency and eﬀecƟveness of such ac ƟviƟes [3]. Modern globaliza Ɵon challenges contribute to the rapid implementa Ɵon of the latest innova Ɵve capabili Ɵes of the digital world and the ac Ɵvity of railway transport as the leading industry in the road transport industry of the country. JSC “Ukrzaliznytsia” [4] which was one of the ﬁrst companies that ac Ɵvely digiƟzed its work, was selected to test the proposed methodology. In par Ɵcular, it refers to the digitaliza Ɵon of the sale of electronic Ɵckets. Compe ƟƟon in the market of transport servic es requires enterprises to introduce new approaches to the provision of quality online Ɵcket sales services. The JSC “Ukrzaliznytsia,” which is directly involved in the sale of electronic travel documents, is interested not only in their conﬁrma Ɵon and sales, but also in promo Ɵng them among various modern social pla ƞorms and networks, tracking demand for speciﬁc areas, determining the need for addi Ɵonal wagons or trains, and idenƟfying problems which online buyers may face. The paper inves Ɵgates the impact of digitaliza Ɵon on sales acƟvity (as one of the key components of marke Ɵng) in the service industry. The main advantages of digitalizing the sale of electronic travel documents are the following: the facilita Ɵon of communica Ɵon between the p erson and the informa Ɵon system; the ability for passengers to use devices to obtain real - Ɵme data on the availability and number of available seats in a par Ɵcular car and train; the ability to receive informaƟon about the number of passengers traveling on a par Ɵcular train in real -Ɵme; the ability to plan and organize the required number of trains on diﬀerent routes according to customers’ requests; and openness and accessibility of services to consumers, regardless of their loca Ɵon and Ɵme of day . Although there are the works of scien Ɵsts, pracƟƟoners, and managers that are devoted to the study of this problem, the impact of digital technologies on marke Ɵng acƟviƟes in general, and in par Ɵcular, on sales in service sectors, such as the impl ementaƟon of travel documents of enterprises providing railway transport, has not been suﬃciently inves Ɵgated from a prac Ɵcal point of view. That is why our goal was to present the impact of digitaliza Ɵon on the eﬀec Ɵveness of marke Ɵng acƟviƟes of the enterprise. The term “digitaliza Ɵon” has come into use since the middle of the last century. The Oxford English Dic Ɵonary [5] interprets it as accepƟng or extending the use of the digital or computer technology of organiza Ɵons, industries, count ries, etc. Castells [6] understands that the new economy, society, and culture under the digitaliza Ɵon considers this concept as one of the characteris Ɵcs of the modern era. Other authors, such as Brennen and Kreiss [7], point out that digitaliza Ɵon has been referred to as structuring many diﬀerent areas of social life around digital communica Ɵons and media infrastructure. According to Parida et al. [8], the necessary condi Ɵon for maintaining its compe ƟƟve posiƟon or its conquest in our Ɵme is not only the use of computer technologies, but also the transi Ɵon to modern innova Ɵve business models. The digitaliza Ɵon is a necessary process for the development of modern organiza Ɵons. Its main task was to simplify and accelerate the work with large da ta sets, automate the ac Ɵvity of the enterprise, and establish communica Ɵons with the external environment. However, there are several major obstacles to implemen Ɵng the digital business model of an organiza Ɵon based on digitaliza Ɵon. These include the lack of a digitaliza Ɵon strategy, a low level of staﬀ competence in this area [9], fear of change, lack of funding, low level of thinking, and the needs of Internet customers. Modern organiza Ɵons are not yet able to simultaneously use all the direc Ɵons and possibili Ɵes of digitaliza Ɵon. Most o Ōen, they use only individual technologies, and as a result, such a situaƟon negaƟvely aﬀects the development of the enterprise and reduces its compe ƟƟve advantages. Consumers increasingly value their Ɵme, meaning they need instant feedback, as well as well-designed informaƟon resources, online chats, and an individual approach. The expecta Ɵons of customers regarding the speed and quality of service provision are growing rapidly. To meet the high needs of clients, companies shall accelerate the digi ƟzaƟon of their business processes, that is, to digitalize the work of the organiza Ɵon. According to Honore [10], the concept of “digitaliza Ɵon” is the op ƟmizaƟon of a business with so Ōware and IT soluƟons that will make it simpler, more cost- eﬀecƟve, and be Ʃer in the context of customer service delivery and sa ƟsfacƟon. Based on this deﬁni Ɵon and a review of the literature on the problem, the deﬁniƟon of digitaliza Ɵon of electronic ƟckeƟng services as a transforma Ɵon and improvement of use of digital technologies was developed to improve and expand the channels of business processes related to the sale, as well as the accoun Ɵng of electronic travel documents through various online services and media channels. Problems of digitaliza Ɵon and the digi ƟzaƟon of marke Ɵng acƟvity are covered in many works. They focus on diﬀerent aspects and analyze the topic from diﬀerent points of view. In par Ɵcular, the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on the ac Ɵvity of the enterprise is raised by Chudaeva et al. [11]; Trasca et al. [12]; Lerch and Gotsch [13]; Brennen and Kreiss [14]; Verhoef et al. [15]; and Singh and Hess [16]. In turn, Majerova [17]; Rachinger et al. [18]; and Verhoef and Bijmolt [19] inve sƟgate its innova Ɵve and digital business models. Works of other scholars were related to the major trends in the digital transforma Ɵon across diﬀerent scenarios [20], models of marke Ɵng diversiﬁca Ɵon [21], expediency of using electronic communica Ɵon technologies [22,23], the inﬂuence of the trend of marke Ɵng digitaliza Ɵon on consumers [24], and digital transforma Ɵon technologies for large companies [25,26]. Furthermore, other researchers concentrate on the applica Ɵon of digitaliza Ɵon, such as in terms of the network of Portuguese companies [27], banking [28], the problem of digitaliza Ɵon in the retail trade [29,30], and the change of marke Ɵng approaches to the consumer through the lens of digitaliza Ɵon of marke Ɵng acƟvity [31,32]. Finally , there are works that propose an original event management architecture based on the holonic principles to improve the monitoring and diagnos Ɵc processes of a ﬂeet of mobile systems in order to design an eﬀec Ɵve event management system for trains [33] , and explore the sta ƟsƟcal distribu Ɵon models of high -speed railway train delays [34]. However, some aspects of research on railway transport deserve special a ƩenƟon, for example, research on the study of social factors as important components of the digitalizaƟon of the business model of railway transport enterprises [35], as well as major opportuni Ɵes, challenges, and prospects for the digitaliza Ɵon of the rail industry [36,37,38,39]. The research methodology included tools that made it possible to evaluate and determine the impact of digitaliza Ɵon on the enterprise’s marke Ɵng acƟviƟes, as follows: methods of systema ƟzaƟon—to summarize the theore Ɵcal achievements of scien Ɵsts for the development of the concepts of “digitaliza Ɵon of services for the sale of electronic Ɵckets”; benchmarking— to conduct a structural and dynamic study of the implementa Ɵon of electronic travel documents through various sales channels through online services, in par Ɵcular, to determine the growth rate of the n umber of purchased railway Ɵckets; linear regression analysis —for the construc Ɵon of predicƟve models of speciﬁc weights of electronic travel documents in their total number for 2019 –2020 (based on the results of the retrospec Ɵve analysis for the year s 2011–2018); methodology of a system analysis for the choice of methodological apparatus of research in the compara Ɵve system of assessing the impact of digitaliza Ɵon on the marke Ɵng acƟviƟes of JSC “Ukrzaliznytsia”; SWOT analysis —to idenƟfy the main features and threats of digitaliza Ɵon of services for the sale and accoun Ɵng of electronic travel documents; using the expert method surveyed to iden Ɵfy passengers’ awareness of online ƟckeƟng services; determining the preferences of the passengers of the Ukrainian railways in choosing the methods of buying an electronic Ɵcket; and evalua Ɵon of the organiza Ɵon of services for the registra Ɵon and payment of a Ɵcket. This study used data from 11,116 respondents who were the users of rail passenger services. Among other basic parameters of the ques Ɵonnaire, the following was iden Ɵﬁed: the form of the study—an individual ques Ɵoning, the frequency —one-Ɵme, and the type of expert assessment —quesƟoning-opinion. The ques Ɵonnaire consisted of 10 ques Ɵons and forms for ﬁlling in the personal data of the respondent. The ques Ɵons were of open and closed formats. The authors used the sta ƟsƟcal methods to process the data obtained from a survey among consumers of Ukrainian railways services. Recomme ndaƟons for the development of the digitaliza Ɵon of electronic ƟckeƟng services and their accounƟng for the enterprises engaged in railway passenger transporta Ɵon are proposed. The main components of digitaliza Ɵon are the following: cost structure, consumer segments, sources of income, channels of sale of goods and services, the structure of rela Ɵons with consumers, key partnerships, types of resources, types of ac ƟviƟes, types of business processes, etc. Business process digitaliza Ɵon involves deﬁning and analyzing the main goals and objec Ɵves, idenƟﬁcaƟon of the main beneﬁts of digitaliza Ɵon of business processes, selec Ɵon and implementa Ɵon of digital technologies, checking and analyzing the eﬀecƟveness of the digital solu Ɵon, and ma king adjustments as needed. The realized research made it possible to iden Ɵfy and systema Ɵze the main factors of the impact of digitaliza Ɵon on business processes, including the sales ac Ɵvity of the company: increasing the compe ƟƟveness of the compan y, goods, and services in the domes Ɵc and foreign markets; increase in sales of goods and services; accelera Ɵon of all business processes; promo Ɵon of eﬃcient produc Ɵon, economic, ﬁnancial, logis Ɵc, informa Ɵon, and markeƟng acƟviƟes; more ra Ɵonal use of available resources; coverage and processing of large data sets in a short Ɵme; improving economic security; raising customer awareness of the company, products, and services; and the opportunity for consumers to purchase goods and services online through various online plaƞorms, mobile applica Ɵons, and social networks. Each of the main objec Ɵves of the research of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on sales ac Ɵvity includes a set of subcontrac Ɵng tasks (sub -goals), which were considered in the context of the developed “tree of goals” to solve the main problem. The goals of levels 1– 8 were transformed into func Ɵons of the system as a whole, of subsystems, and of elements. Furthermore, the sub-goals of the lower levels (parameters), which were the means of achieving the higher- level goals, transformed into tools by which the func Ɵons were realized and the reverse process of the composi Ɵon network of tasks was carried out; this involved the achievement of the main goal, namely to determine the parameters of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on sales ac Ɵvity. The achievement of the general goal was inﬂuenced by various condi Ɵons and restric Ɵons of an economic and informa Ɵonal nature. AŌer formula Ɵng the problem and deﬁning the system and fa ctors of the environment, as well as the main goals and objec Ɵves of the research for determining the parameters of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on sales acƟvity (components of the goal of level 0), the transi Ɵon to the goals of the ﬁrst and second levels of the speciﬁed “tree of goals” was realized, namely the choice of methodological apparatus for research and systemaƟc analysis of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on sales ac Ɵvity. To analyze the retrospec Ɵve period and iden Ɵfy the main trends in its development, as well as the correlaƟon of indicators that characterize these trends, the development of informa Ɵon support to solve the problem of determining the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on sales ac Ɵvity was a necessary stage of this research. The prepara Ɵon of informa Ɵon support involved the collec Ɵon and processing of output data for the formaƟon of a database, which would later serve to generate equa Ɵons, model solu Ɵons, and analyze the data obtained. The implementa Ɵon of the goals of the various levels was carried out using scien Ɵﬁc methods, integrated into the tools of system analysis. Informal, graphical, quan ƟtaƟve, and simula Ɵon methods may be the principal ways of implemen Ɵng the developed compara Ɵve system of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on the sales acƟvity under the above condi Ɵons and restric Ɵons. The presented level of systema Ɵc assessment of the inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon on the sales ac Ɵvity of the enterprise was proposed to be applied to JSC Ukrzaliznytsia . In parƟcular, at the ﬁrst level, the choice of methodological apparatus of the research was made: methodology of systema Ɵc and compara Ɵve analysis, and methods of mathema Ɵcal modeling and predic Ɵon. At the next level, an informa Ɵon base was formed , methods of inﬂuence of digitaliza Ɵon were analyzed and selected, and so on. The third level included the analysis and synthesis of the sales system of JSC Ukrzaliznytsia and its external environment, including the sales history, distribu Ɵon methods, and channels, as well as the marke Ɵng technologies. In late 2008, the JSC «Ukrzaliznytsia» launched its ﬁrst stage on the way to digitaliza Ɵon, where Ɵckets were introduced through the oﬃcial website of the JSC «Ukrzaliznytsia» [40] a network of agents was created, through which electronic Ɵckets could be issued through online services. These include PrivatBank [41], Oschadbank [42], Ɵcket sales sites [43,44,45,46,47], and other online resources. Extending the func Ɵonality of digitaliza Ɵon, the online Ɵcket sales service for mobile apps allows storing them in the AppleWallet app and adding travel informa Ɵon to Google Calendar. Within the period from 2011 through to 2018, the JSC «Ukrzaliznytsia» sold a total of about 435 million travel documents, while the share of purchased electronic Ɵckets was 18.31% or about 79 million electronic travel documents.